When McDonald's increase there outlets they, increase their market reach, brand visibility, attract new customers. However, concentrating McDonald's in a certain region limits the resources increasing the marginal cost of opening a store , which later increases to such an extend that dips the net revenue. In this case increasing outlets just means dividing the revenue among them while incurring the same fixed costs(like employee salary, land rent, building's opportunity cost, etc.) .Technically we can say that McDonald's store will compete with themselves which is like cannibalism or eating self, here self profits.

The Law of diminishing returns is an economic principle that states that as you increase one input(like labor or capital) while holding all other inputs constant, there will be a point at which the additional output per unit of input will start to decrease.

In current scenario
The factor of production to be studied in this case is of the number of stores.
The McDonald's chain has input requirements of Land, raw material, Area covered, employees, and number of outlets,
in this case we are fixing all the input resources except the number of outlets.

But as we increase the number of outlets initially the marginal production increase per unit of outlet, but this increase remain only till we utilize the other resources to there max potential, like in a saree manufacturing plant weaving machines cannot be replaced efficiently by utilizing only workers, in the same way outlets can't be increased without increasing the area catered, which will be fixed if stores are opened in proximity.

Strategies to avoid this: -

1.Demand analysis: - New stores are only beneficial when there is a demand of burgers in the location. Stores can then be relocated to cater underserved areas also well without the need of opening new stores.
(This will ensure optimal resource usage up to there maximum potential)

2.Increase the variety/offerings : - New products or complements with burgers can also help increase the overall demand given the brand value of McDonald's.Overall it will increase it's market definition and reach.(increasing per unit area demand)

3.Seperate target groups premium/standard: - The offerings at store in proximity to each other can be different,There can be a premium store in high demand areas with additional services like spa , fish bath, which can have different charges. It will stop internal competition and also entail to different market definitions more efficiently.

4.Tie ups with other market players: - The less profit making outlets can be tied up with local brands selling products having high crosselasticity. Like people like to eat burgeres when There are items like soda/ alcohol etc. are available .This will help market benefits of both players increasing there overall sales.

5.Predatory pricing: - In areas with low availability of competitors artificially price can be controlled to bare survival untill the competitors get destroyed and a monopoly is estabilished.Can work in remote cities but not so effective for big cities.
