
Assumptions in my analysis: -
1.The overall benefit per student will decrease in long term because of inflation, i.e. value of state fund will deteriorate.
2.The fee is significantly lower than the equilibrium fees.

1. QUALITY
Tuition fees -> below equilibrium
As the Tuition fee has been held below equilibrium driven by a constant state funding. The quality of education provided by the state university is expected to deteriorate in the long run keeping state funding constant. As people react to incentives, there will be no incentive for professors, management etc. to motivate them do better for the students.

2. SHORTAGE
Secondly this will artificially create a shortage of seats as demand for education will increase given the lower price and for many it will be a good option to just continue higher education, which will create a shortage of seats in the government institutions.

3. OTHER UNIVERSITIES
As the government colleges get cheaper other colleges to compete have to make their fees lower and thereby decreasing their quality as well.

4. SOCIAL GOOD
However in a country like India, education being a necessity with per capita income not enough for the poor ,This effect will help a lot of students receive good education facilities and improve there finances.

5. LONG TERM EFFECTS
1.  Professors : -Over a long period of time ,the incentive to become a good professor will become very less and the top notch talent will not like to become a professor, leading to filling of mediocre teachers and thereby deterioration of quality.

2.  Standard of education : - As the private universities, to compete with the government ones keep there price lower , the competition incentive benefit for quality will significantly decrease thereby culminating the benefit of incentives a system gets in case of competitive markets.

3.  Credibility of State Universities : - If the government funding is not raised , the education output of state university will become 0 and thereby again restoring the private competition with no one wanting to go to state institutions.

4. Competency of the country in Global Order : -Global universities like the ones in United States will be providing good incentives to both state run and private ones , making there people more productive making our country educated workers mere low cost labor servicemen for them.


EQUAL ACCESIBILITY OF EDUCATION : -

1.IMPROPER RATIONING :-
As the fee is low many students may like to do part time and study together just for fun, coming from a rich background they may afford it, but this may violate the benefits for people for whom the scheme was intended to be.

2.BENEFIT/LOSS TO POOR HARDWORKING CLASS :-
As the education will be available at a lower cost the poor section of the society can get some benefits from it. But in long run the opportunity cost for them will force them to quit higher education as in long term the quality of education will deteriorate it would be better for them to do some work and gain experience.

3.ADMISSION SELECTION :-
The demand for government university will be high, but there is no perfect method to check whether The person is really needy for those incentive or not, as merit will be dominated by rich guys who had already received a good quality education in their primary schools etc. This will make state subsidies spent on people who are already rich ,people with already good financial condition are more likely to get a good seat, good branch and the ones who are already under privileged will get less benefits lower branch and most probably their full potential will be unused.

4.OVERALL EDUCATION REACH :-
However, ignoring the quality perspective of educational institutes it will be cheaper even in private colleges as the fees will be regulated by the governmental institutes subsidized fee in the competition market. 

5.LONG TERM GAP : -
Private institutes will make state institutes un functional in the long run and the underprivileged society will get very less benefits from the state universities making them ineffective and quality education will be restricted to the private run institutes.